The sketch in this folder, Blink.ino, is a version of the classic blink example for the Arduino UNO board. The example will blink at an interval, measured in milliseconds (thousandths of a second), specified in the Arduino sketch. The human visual system can detect the blinking down to a certain threshold. Below the threshold, the LED will appear continuously lit. The threshold varies among individuals. What is your threshold?

Wiring up the LED circuit is simple.  You will construct the circuit using an external LED, a 220 Ohm resistor, a mini-breadboard, and four breadboarding wires (aka. jumper wires). You will use the mini-breadboard and breadbording wires to construct the circuit. To get into the habit of using color coding for your wiring, you should use a black breadboarding wire for the GRD (ground or -) connections and red wires for the positive (+) connection. 

You will connect one end of a black wire to one of the GRD pins on the Arduino and the other end to the GRD column of the breadboard. You will connect one end of a red wire to digital output pin 13 of the Arduino. Connect the other end of the wire to the current column of the breadboard. Place the LED on the breadboard as show in the pictoral diagram of the circuit. Use a second black jumper wire to connect the GRD lead of the LED to the GRD column of the breadboard. As discussed in class, LEDs have polarity. The longer lead is the positive lead (the anode). The shorter lead is the ground lead (the cathode). Make sure that you connect the shorter LED lead to ground. 

LEDs can only tolerate a certain amount of current before they are damaged or burn out. You will use the 220 Ohm resistor to limit the amount of current flowing to the red LED. Note the color code scheme on the resistor, red, red, brown. These indicate the value for the resistor. Via the breadboard, connect one of the leads of the resistor to the positive lead of the LED. Resistors have no polarity, so either of the leads of the resistor can be connected to the LED. Connect the other lead of the resistor to the ground via the second black jumper wire. Compare your circuit to the one shown in the pictoral representation. 

Open the sketch in the Arduino IDE and connect your Arduino to your computer via the USB cable. Make sure that the IDE is using the correct serial connection for the board. Compile and upload the sketch. If all goes well, the LED should be blinking at the rate specified in the sketch. Experiment with different millisecond delays in the delay() function of the sketch. How fast is your perception of the blink?